## solsign -- A utility for signing solana transactions off-line ##

# Introduction #

solsign is a small utility program that facilitates signing solana transactions off-line.  ***Off-line signing***
means using keys that are stored locally on the user's computer to sign transactions without connection to any
"wallet" software.

solsign reads complete solana transactions that have been encoded in Base64 format.  Base64 allows the binary data
of a solana transaction to be presented in only text characters suitable for copying and pasting into a terminal
window.  solsign reads transactions, signs them, and then either outputs the newly signed transaction (also in
Base64 format), and also outputs the signature of the transaction if the transaction is now completely signed.

solsign supports a few common workflows:

1. **Signing a single-signer transaction**: this is accomplished by passing the `--no-prompt` argument to solsign, along with the path to a key file.  solsign reads a transaction to sign from standard input, then signs it and outputs the signed version.

2. **Repeatedly signing single-signer transactions**: this is accomplished by passing the path to a key file to solsign on the command-line, **or** inputting the mnemonic and passphrase to solsign after it has started up.  After that, solsign will read transactions from standard input, sign them, and write the signatures to standard output, continuing to do so until the user ends the input.  This would be useful for repeated off-line signing of many transactions using the same signing key.

3. **Performing a mulit-signer operation**: in this use case, a single transaction requires the signatures of many parties.  The unsigned transaction is first passed through one instance of solsign providing one key to use to sign the transaction.  The resulting partially signed transaction can be sent to the next signer, who will use solsign similarly to provide their signature.  This can be repeated numerous times until the transaction has been completely signed by all parties, at which point solsign will print out the completely signed transaction as well as its signature.


# Using solsign #

`solsign --help` will show brief help text describing its usage.

Pass the `--no-prompt` command line option to cause solsign to skip the "reading keys from standard input" stop and to exit after a single transaction has been read in and processed.

All arguments besides `--help` and `--no-prompt` are paths to key files which will be read in and used to sign transactions.

After starting up, unless `--no-prompt` was specified, solsign will prompt for any additional keys that the user would like to supply for signing.  These are supplied as mnemonic seed phrases with optional passphrases, and after these values have been input, solsign will ask the user to select from one of several possible derivations of the key.

The key input sequence includes these steps:

1. solsign prints out the public keys of the current list of signing keys.
2. solsign prompts: `Enter mnemonic seed words of next key, or press ENTER to continue:`
3. If the user presses ENTER without supplying any other input, the key input phase is ended. **Note:** the mnemonic seed words will not be echoed to the screen as they are typed.
4. If the user enters a mnemomic word sequence, solsign then issues the prompt: `Enter passphrase seed, or press ENTER for no passphrase`
5. If the user pressed ENTER without entering a passphrase, then no passphrase is used.  **Note:** the passphrase will not be echoed to the screen as it is typed.
6. solsign then generates 9 possible derivations of the keypair.  The first is a direct seed using mnemonic and passphrase, as would be generated by the `solana-keygen` program.  The remaining are standard BIP-44 derivations as typically used by wallet software
7. The user selects the line that corresponds to their public key by entering the line number at the next propmpt: `Select a derived key 0 - 9 from above, or press ENTER to skip:`.  If the user presses ENTER without any number, then the derived keys are ignored.
8. This process repeats until the user presses ENTER at the mnemonic prompt indicating that there are no more keys to add.

After this, solsign reads Base64 encoded transactions from standard input, signs them, and prints results to standard output.  It stops after a single transaction if the `--no-prompt` command line argument was given, otherwise loops continuing to wait for and process transactions until standard input ends.

When a transaction is input, solsign signs it with whatever matching keys it has, and then if the transaction is completely signed, outputs:

`Transaction is complete:`

Followed by a Base64 encoded version of the completely signed transaction, and then followed by:

`Signature:`

With the signature of the transaction as the last item printed.

If the transaction was not completely signed, but still requires more signers, then solsign will print:

`Pubkeys still needed to sign:`

Followed by a list of public keys of the keypairs that still must sign the transaction, then followed by:

`Partially signed transaction:`

And then the Base64 encoded version of the partially signed transaction, ready to be used in subsequent solsign invocations to continue signing.


LICENSE: Public domain, do what you want with it.
